[Freshness] US-1953530: Refresh top articles by PV - .NET and Languages Content (#29710)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/testing/unit-testing-best-practices.md

description: Learn best practices for writing unit tests that drive code quality and resilience for .NET Core and .NET Standard projects.
author: jpreese
ms.author: wiwagn

> ms.date: 07/06/2022

Reviewer: This is the incorrect date format. It should be `MM/DD/YYYY`.
```suggestion
ms.date: 06/07/2022
```

Author: Ok, updated accordingly. Thanks!

ms.custom: devdivchpfy22
---

# Unit testing best practices with .NET Core and .NET Standard

There are numerous benefits of writing unit tests; they help with regression, provide documentation, and facilitate good design. However, hard to read and brittle unit tests can wreak havoc on your code base. This article describes some best practices regarding unit test design for your .NET Core and .NET Standard projects.

In this guide, you learn some best practices when writing unit tests to keep your tests resilient and easy to understand.

By [John Reese](https://reese.dev) with special thanks to [Roy Osherove](https://osherove.com/)

## Why unit test?

### Less time performing functional tests

> Functional tests are expensive. They typically involve opening up the application and performing a series of steps that you (or someone else), must follow in order to validate the expected behavior. These steps might not always be known to the tester. They'll have to reach out to someone more knowledgeable in the area in order to carry out the test. Testing itself could take seconds for trivial changes, or minutes for larger changes. Lastly, this process must be repeated for every change that you make in the system.

Author: Ok, updated the content.

Assert.True(purchase.CanBeShipped);
```

> The above example would be of stub being referred to as a mock. In this case, it's a stub. You're just passing in the Order as a means to be able to instantiate `Purchase` (the system under test). The name `MockOrder` is also misleading because again, the order isn't a mock.

Reviewer 2: I know you're not ready for reviews yet, but I just want to nip this one in the bud in case you make similar changes to other articles. See https://styleguides.azurewebsites.net/Styleguide/Read?id=2700&topicid=27392.

Author: Noted, thank you! :)

Assert.True(mockOrder.Validated);
```

> In this case, you're checking a property on the Fake (asserting against it), so in the above code snippet, the `mockOrder` is a Mock.

Author: Ok, updated the content.

### Avoid logic in tests

> When writing your unit tests avoid manual string concatenation, logical conditions such as `if`, `while`, `for`, `switch`, and other conditions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When writing your unit tests, avoid manual string concatenation, logical conditions, such as `if`, `while`, `for`, `switch`, and other conditions.
```

Author: Ok, updated it.

### Validate private methods by unit testing public methods

> In most cases, there shouldn't be a need to test a private method. Private methods are an implementation detail. You can think of it as, private methods never exist in isolation. At some point, there's going to be a public facing method that calls the private method as part of its implementation. What you should care about is the end result of the public method that calls into the private one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In most cases, there shouldn't be a need to test a private method. Private methods are an implementation detail and never exist in isolation. At some point, there's going to be a public facing method that calls the private method as part of its implementation. What you should care about is the end result of the public method that calls into the private one.
```

Author: Ok, updated it.

}
```

> Unfortunately, you'll quickly realize that there are a couple problems with your tests.

Author: Ok, updated the content.
